{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 :	"Do dolls have souls? All children talk to their toys, says Charles Baudelaire, and *the overriding desire of most children is to get at and see the soul of their toys*. Rainer Maria Rilke would agree, with the difference that his child expects the doll to answer back and is disgusted when it doesn't." [Parry (1994), v][#Parry:1994vn]\
\
When artificial objects speak, the presence of breath is intimated and an illusion of life should be more or less guaranteed. However, from our everyday experience of talking technology, we experience alienation, self-conciousness, strangeness, a sense of artificiality or spookiness (*uncanny valley* or *frankenstein complex* like feelings) or an acute sense of dysfunctionality. \
\
: "In so far as a sound is recognised as a voice, rather than a sound, it is assumed to be coming from a person or conscious agency." [][#Conner:2000uq]\
\
I will refer to key moments in the history of mechanical and digital talking toys with special reference to the emergence of talking virtual *creatures*, not only as surrogate pets, but as kinds of digital puppets. (the full extent of what I mean by a digital puppet is stated elsewhere). I will draw on insights from the field of performance studies, particularly: puppetry and digital puppetry, and relate emerging ideas to the human computer interaction of talking digital toys and play objects. I intend to touch on how the current technologies of computer based speech synthesis and recognition are being applied in the creation of talking toys and games. \
\
I am interested in what happens to the perception we hold about objects when they *talk* and are seen to be talking, either through human agency or through embedded technology, like voice chips and facial animatronics. For example: I will discuss the relationship between non-animate talking dolls and different kinds of animated puppets like the *mouth* puppet and *character* toys. Other examples of digital talking toys range from objects like talking greetings cards, Texas Instruments *Speak and Spell* to humanoid or anthropomorphised talking toys like the MP3 playing storytelling bears, like Teddy Ruxpin or the iTeddy. \
Through the research (in a more long term view), I seek to clarify the qualities that lead to distinctions between the animate and inanimate speaking object, including the following patterns: the anthropomorphic (human form and qualities in the non-human), zoomorphic (human form and qualities to the animal) and the anthropopathic (the attribution of human emotion into non-human form normally God).\
What seductive, alluring pleasure, education and magic is lost when our play-things talk back at us? Or, conversely, what is gained?[^ch_cc_gainedfootnote]\
\
: "[The doll] remained silent, not because it felt superior, but silent because this was the established form of evasion and because it was made of useless and absolutely unresponsive material. It was silent, and the idea did not even occur to it that this silence must confer considerable importance on it in a world where destiny and indeed God himself have become famous mainly by not speaking to us." [(Rilke 1913/1914 in Parry (1994), v)][#Parry:1994vn] \
\
[^ch_cc_gainedfootnote]: See: http://www.romanceher.com/talkingteddybear.htm - "A digital message player inside the bear lets you record a 10 second message in your own voice. Each time the bear is hugged, the message plays back. This cute teddy bear is twelve inches tall. The white teddy bear is holding a bouquet of roses and the hidden pocket in the back which holds the recorder can also hold a note, ring, small gift etc. Batteries are included with it. Out of Stock  Indefinitely."\
\
}