{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 **About trends:**\
\
What are the trends in the interaction design of *innovative* toys that embed digital speech technologies? \
How is digitised speech used in contemporary toys? \
How are talking toys used to create narrative based experiences?\
What happens when talking toys automatically move or have facial animation?\
\
**About play:**\
\
What happens to imaginative play and art when *things* speak? \
Do talking digital toys enhance *imaginative* play, story-making and children's role play? \
What happens to improvisational play when toys both speak and move and are, in effect, programmed automatons?\
\
**About technology:**\
\
What are the emerging models of HCI in speech activated and speaking objects? \
How have embedded speech recognition and learning systems been used to devise *dialogical* digital toys? \
What is the current state of voice activation and command recognition in toys and how is it being used to stimulate or constrain imaginative play? \
\
In order to discuss these questions effectively and include historical and contemporary references to key toys, companies, critical voices, theory, technology, design trends and other ideas, I propose ten emerging ideas in [][tenemergingideasinvolvingtalkingtoysandtechnology] as starting points for discussion.}