{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 In researching this chapter, I have uncovered a quantity of talking technology issues and experiments, both historical and contemporary, that will be discussed in following papers. These include the role of talking technology and objects in education; patents and animatronics in the techno-entertainment industries, linguistic and semantic modelling in a-life simulations and screen-based games, experiments in analogue and digital voice synthesis in computer games and chat-bots and the like, and, now, talking dildos. I acknowledge emerging trends like the use of embedded audio recording devices to include player voices in games and tangible objects (in "Nintendogs" and "Talking Teddy" from "romanceher.com"). This paper is very much an early exploration that, hopefully, will establish and discuss useful questions around the complex of multi-disciplinary issues involved: these areas include developmental and social psychology, learning and play theory, computer science and AI, HCI and design, and creative writing. \
\
For reference purposes, here is a list of the talking toys and objects I've considered for this paper [they will form an slideshow backdrop to my reading, what they say and the technology (the voice chips and interactive flow):\
\
Hasbro's "T.J. Bearytales
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 ", "Talking Furby
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 ", Talking "Aloha Stich
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 ", "FurReal
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 " (they are as the blurb states "for real") \
Mattel's "Teen Talk Barbie
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 " \
Backpack Toys' "Teddy Ruxpin
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 " \
Thinkway Toys' "Interactive buddies" (their slogan "I'm a thinking toy\'ae", e.g. "the Buzz LightYear room guard" \
Microsoft's Actimates
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 , particularly "Barney the Dinosaur" complete with a William-Gibson-like body-port for downloading TV signals. \
Crying baby simulators (used in UK health trusts to dissuade teenage pregnancy). "Baby Think it Over" in the USA (Stanford University). \
Various Greetings Cards with embedded speech (some recordable). \
Mattel's "Diva Petz
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 " with Voice Signal's Speaker-Independent Speech Recognition Technology. \
"Talking Nano
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 " (non-representational 'Tamagotchi') \
"Yo, Dude
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 ", from DSI Toys, Inc. \
"Rock Buddies
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 ", from MGA Entertainment. \
"Amazing Amanda", "P.O.D.Z.
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 ", from Playmates Toys Inc. \
"Hey, Man TM" from Wow Wee \
romanceher.com's "Romeo" Talking Teddy \
Dr Allison Druin's "P.E.T.S". \
Justine Cassell's "StoryMat
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 " from the MIT.}