{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Puppetry, the emerging forms of digital puppetry and puppet like talking toys are all about *control* in two important senses. There's the good old fashioned sense that such toys are 'cybernetic' systems where there is a feedback loop with the *movement -- action -- operator/audience* communication chain and in the sense that such toys embed pedagogical rules and structures. \
\
: "The thing about playing is always the precariousness of the interplay of personal psychic reality and control of actual objects" [Winnicot 1971 cited in Cassell and Ryokai, 1, 2001 ][#Cassell:2007uq]\
\
Certain talking toys, the interactive series of *Actimates* from Microsoft, have been criticised for the empty way they encode, like passive vessels, content from other media channels. 'Barney the Dinosaur', for example is controlled by signals from PCs, TV broadcasts and video tape. The dolls mouth syncs and sings with the representation of Barney on screen. \
\
: "Most commercial applications in the domain of tangible personal technologies for children are variants on dolls, with increasingly sophisticated repertoires of behaviours. Microsoft Actimates' "Barney" and Mattel's "Talk with Me Barbie" have embedded quite sophisticated technology into familiar stuffed animals and dolls. These toys, however, deliver adult-scripted content with thin layers of personalization, and do not engage children in their own fantasy play. In both cases the toy is the speaker and the child is firmly in the position of listener." [Cassell and Ryokai, 1, 2001 ][#Cassell:2007uq]\
\
Microsoft's learning toy theorist and actimate guru, Erik Strommen positions Barney as a mate, a learning pal, a friend. \
\
But another aspect of *control*, is the propensity of talking toys to lie: \
\
An extended extract from an interactive toy conference review, "Interactive Barney: Good or evil?" : \
\
: "When I hear Barney say, *You're my special friend* \'96 that's a disingenuous statement," said Allen Cypher, a founder of Stagecast Software, which designs children's programs. "It's a fraudulent claim. It deceives kids into believing that Barney has some emotional attachment to them, and that's not true." Other panelists worried about Barney's "authoritarian tone," or that he discouraged imaginative play. And some said that, while Barney himself was basically harmless, he may be a harbinger of worse to come: an interactive Cartman from "South Park," perhaps, spewing expletives and insulting his owner"[^chcc_stitch]. And one member of the audience asked if a child could take Barney apart and "reprogram him to say, *Please slap me.*", "These products are designed to prevent that," Strommen said. [Newman][#Newman:2007kx]\
\
[^chcc_stitch]: See Hasbro's *Aloha Stitch* doll for an example of such a moody toy.\
\
When discussing *control* it is important to note that it is not meant in a purely sinister, ideologically manipulative, way. Play, and particularly play where children animate and give voice to objects that surround them, is about children asserting control and (dis)order over facets of their environment: \
\
: "One essential aspect of childrens' spontaneous storytelling play is that it is child-driven. And this is important since children feel a sense of achievement and empowerment when they know that they can create and control the content of their play objects. So, if technology is to encourage childrens' creativity and, in particular, play a role in childrens' storytelling play, it must not dampen that child-driven aspect of their play." [Cassell and Ryokai, pg..., 2001 ][#Cassell:2007uq]\
}