{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 The history of talking toys and automata is clearly a story of technical innovation and development for the purposes of celebration, entertainment and play. According to Jasia Reichardt talking statues have been known since 2500 BC: \
\
: "Some incorporated concealed speaking trumpets through which someone hidden could address a gathering. The idea was that gods communicateed through the statues which represented them" [(Reichardt (1978), 9)][#Reichardt:1978qy]\
\
Of interest here, Jacques de Vaucanson created a number of mechanical automata including a '\uc0\u64258 ute player and defecating duck' (circa 1737-1738). On the *\u64258 ute player*: \
\
: "This automaton *breathed*. Even though the art of mechanics was sophisticated enough by then to make the machine perform many other movements, and even though Vaucanson unveiled the fact that this breath was created by bellows, the very act of breathing, seen in an inanimate figure, continued to cause a stir well into the following century." [(Wood (2002), 21-22)][#Wood:2002fk] \
\
The first talking doll was patented by Johann Nepomuk Maelzel in 1824. According to Gaby Wood "He designed a pair of bellows that, when attached to a tube, a widening oral cavity and a set of valves, could say *papa* or *maman*". [(Wood (2002), 118-119)][#Wood:2002fk]\
\
Thomas Edison's *Talking Doll* (1891) -- conceived as an advertisement for his sound recording device -- embedded a miniaturised phonograph mechanism that played wax cylinder recordings of nursery rhymes, prayers and stories: \
\
: "[The phonograph] began by speaking the words of a child, and it was not long before a child was invented to give it shape, or to give it life. So the capturing and reproduction of speech were accompanied by a casing for it in human form" [(Wood (2002), 18)][#Wood:2002fk]\
\
The context around Edison's toy development has shaped the industrialised processes surrounding technical innovation and toys ever since. There is little perceived difference between Edison grafting a mechanical phonograph into a toy and iTeddy's implanted mp3/mp4 playback device. Yet the former was an exercise in creating perfect representational forms of human (female) life, and the other a toy to placate media hungry children.\
\
: "Edison's colleague, W.K.L. Dickson, wrote that it was *perhaps the daintiest and most suggestive of all the multiform uses to which the phonograph has been put.* He described *roseate lips* which would *lisp out the oft-conned syllables of nursery rhymes, pipe the familiar of Mother Goose's ballads, and give forth the cooing and wailing sounds of baby life*. Under such auspices into what enchanted realm will our ordinary toys be transformed." [(Dickson cited in Wood, 2002, 114)][#Wood:2002fk]\
\
Duncan Bannatyne, on a broadcast of BBC TV's venture capital reality show [^chcc_dragonsden], said of iTeddy: \
\
: "I'm so sad. Reading bedtime stories is a father's [sic] job. I don't want to be replaced by a teddy bear." \
\
[^chcc_dragonsden]: See /url\{http://www.bbc.co.uk/dragonsden/\}\
\
Talking toys that emerge from University research labs and university start ups are philosophically worlds apart from corporate toys from the likes of Microsoft, Disney franchises and the enormous toy companies like Hasbro and Mattel. The work of Justine Cassell at MIT with "StoryMat
\f1\fs24 \'99
\f0\fs36 ", Dr Alison Druin with the "PETS" projects[^chcc_petsproject] (from the Human Computer Interaction Lab at the University of Maryland) are distinct in pedagogy and interactive strategy from most commercially available toys. The toys have a clear philosophy of use as *learning technologies* rather than simply embedding the latest speech recognition and synthesis chips in order to maximise rich play or to aim for 'realism', or to service a franchise. \
\
[^chcc_petsproject]: PETS -- "Personal Electronic Teller of Stories" robotic pets that support children in the storytelling process.\
\
It should be noted that sponsorship relationships exist between the toy companies and innovative research groups in universities. An extended quotation from David Shenk's article Behold the Toys of Tomorrow (1999) illustrates the connections between technological innovation, the toy corporations and the University researcher:\
\
: "The computerisation of toys also dovetails nicely with the ambitions of computer evangelists, those whose life's mission it is to deliver the power of computation into every aspect of every person's life. Nicholas Negroponte, the director of MIT's famously innovative Media Laboratory (the Vatican of techno-evangelism), noted last year in his Wired column that toys are the *fastest evolving vehicles on the infobahn*, meaning...they're the only class of objects that can truly keep up with the rapid pace of hardware and software innovation. ... [1999 saw] the formation of an industry-research consortium called *Toys of Tomorrow*. A dozen or so companies, including Mattel, Tomy, Intel, and Bandai...have signed up, committing to at least three years of the \\$250,000 annual sponsorship fee. In return for the funding..., [the] sponsors get first crack at the new technology and ideas --... The Media Lab is a Willy Wonka factory for technophiles, where the only limitations are in the creators' imaginations. Intoxicated by the MIT fumes, one thinks: How could this not be a boon to society?" [(Shenk 1999. Date Accessed: 01/02/2007)][#Shenk:2007vn]\
\
It should be noted that talking toys and animated toys are often adult orientated, rather than for children. This may be because such devices express the extraordinary fascination with what contemporary technologies can do. Jacques de Vaucanson's *defecating duck* was not a toy -- but a remarkable exploration of what clockwork and air power could do. Likewise, Edison's talking doll: \
\
: "One can only conclude that the [Edison's] dolls were not for children, and adults like [Albert Hopkins (Editor of *Scientific American* c1890)] were not alone in picking up on their aggressive horror. Formanek-Brunell quotes a survey taken at the time Edison's dolls were manufactured, in which a four year old girl, fusing the animate with the inanimate in a way that recalls Vaucanson's duck, said she didn't like talking dolls, because *the fixings in the stomach are not good for digestion*." [(Wood (2002), 118)][#Wood:2002fk]}