{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Talking toys are rarely conversational agents, and interaction is heavily pre-determined. Randomising responses is one strategy that provides an illusion of knowing, active or predictive conversation. Such illusions are broken when the pattern or repetition is noticed.\
 \
Arguably, talking toys fix patterns and structure play and are, in nature, didactic and instructional. However, structured or programmatic experiences are crucial to learning, play and language development. I am not simply dismissing such toys dogmatically from some valorised over-emphasis on the value of *free play*. Lev Vygotsky states: \
\
: "Let us turn now to the role of play and its in\uc0\u64258 uence on a child's development. I think it is enormous. I think that play with an imaginary situation is something essentially new, impossible for a child under three; it is a novel form of behavior in which the child is liberated from situational constraints through his activity in an imaginary situation." [Vygotsky (First Published: 1933. Date Created: 2002 . Date Accessed: 01/02/2007)][#Vygotsky:2007ly]\
\
I would assert that more *situational constraints* are imposed by over-structured, adult led, media in\uc0\u64258 uenced play, than child centred play. It may be a useful moment to introduce the term *metaxis* used in education drama contexts for describing the *dualness* of perception during role-play and *as-if* contexts. Metaxis has been defined as "the state of belonging completely and simultaneously to two different autonomous worlds" [(Boal (1995), 43)][#Boal:1995gf]. This definition has interesting resonance when considering the virtual realities created by digital talking toys.}