{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 First, adults buy toys and design toys, and their associated pedagogy, for children. Children of a certain age exert pressure and express desires for certain toys, stoked by the marketing messages of the larger toy companies. Most talking toys enshrine messages and pedagogy from adults to children and on occasion seek to replace or act as surrogates for social parental contact: A selling point of a recent the UK designed toy, iTeddy, a strange *Tellie-Tubbies* and iPod hybrid, a bear with a media player embedded in it's stomach, was the *comforting* effect the toy had to placate children during the absence of a peer, buddie, parent or supervisor. The surrogate suckling/child rearing function of childrens media and TV are transferred into the toy itself. Like many toys of this ilk, iTeddy, refreshes its onboard content of nursery rhymes and stories using networked connectivity to a custom web-site. \
\
Erik Strommen is having a fascinating career that takes in companies as diverse as "The Childrens Television Workshop" creators of educational puppet-fest "Sesame Street", several game companies and Microsoft, where he worked on and promoted the Actimate series of interactive toys. In his 1999 paper *Learning from Television With Interactive Toy Characters As Viewing Companions* [Strommen (Online PDF of published work. Date Written: 1999. Date Accessed: 01/03/2007)][#Strommen:2007ul], and in later work[^chcc_strommenpubs], he builds an extended theory of how talking interactive toys can act as *scaffolding* for learning interactions, act as *buddies* and simulated co-learners. In more recent work, Strommen clearly delineates between interactive toys as surrogates for adult interventions, toys as establishing shared contexts for extended social interactions (i.e. such toys need adult supervision and interaction) and pure play without any pedagogical intent: \
\
: "Whos in charge? If the children are the ones setting things up not just physically but conceptually, if they are showing each other what to do, collaborating, its play. If the children are being told what to do, led, directed, or tested, its not play" (Strommen, 2004, ) \
\
[^chcc_strommenpubs]: *When the Interface is a Talking Dinosaur: Learning Across Media with ActiMates Barney* (1998). *Learning from Television With Interactive Toy Characters As Viewing Companions* (1999). *Interactive Toy Characters as Interfaces For Children* (2000).\
\
The more interesting counter-examples of toys not obviously promoting language acquisition are speaking toys that babble and create their own non-human languages that parody child language. Such toys do not induct nor reinforce the adult designed language structures of nursery rhymes, alphabet led rote learning and traditional language learning games Such toys and characters, eg. the Norns in the Creatures series *language* [3] and the talking Furbies native language *Furbish*, communicate through prosody and gesture and are not limited by the need to process real language structures. Bizarrely (and wonderfully - in terms of creativity and useless play) such toys have lead to the players acquiring and learning nonsense languages. Peter Chilvers on developing "Nornish": \
\
: "We decided to look for a way of converting anything the Norns said into sounds, in such a way that (i) the words sounded like speech, and (ii) a word would sound the same every time it was spoken, and (iii) different words should have different pronunciations. Just to make life difficult for myself, I also added (iv) similar words should sound similar. The first step was to record some speech. Luckily, one of the artists working on the game had something of a gift for making bizarre noises, so we gave him a script full of gibberish and recorded him babbling away. This was then chopped up into individual syllables, and electronically treated to give male and female voices. Having been presented with a large collection of syllables, I went through them and decided whether they sounded like the start of a sentence, the middle of a sentence or the end of a sentence. Having established these groups, I let "nature" do the tricky bit for me. I came up with a way of using a random set of numbers to convert any group of three letters into one of these syllables. I then let these random numbers "breed" until I had a vocabulary that fitted all my requirements - all groups of letters had a corresponding sound, simi lar groups sounded similar, and I could recognise the starts and ends of sentences. Norns have a very small vocabulary, so in principle, it should be possible to learn to understand "Nornish" -- I confess I've never had the patience, though I'd love to hear if anyone has." [Peter Chilvers (Date Created: nodate. Date Accessed: 01/02/2007)][#Chilvers:2007wd]\
\
People have learnt "Nornish". A critical act of non-utilitarian play.}