{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Talking toys enshrine a pedagogy that has, in effect, remained un-changed since Edison's *talking doll* of the late 19th Century'. The pedagogy is built on cautionary tales and stories, wrote learning of nursery songs and instruction led play. \
\
Elsewhere in this paper, I have mentioned Microsoft's Actimate *Barney the Dinosaur* being accused of lying - mainly because he doesn't have a consciousness yet talks freely of love. The ideological function of what talking dolls say is critical when evaluating talking toys. \
\
The New York based Barbie Liberation Organisation (BLO), a group of feminist hactivists formed circa December 1993, undertook a remarkable operation to swop the voice boxes of 300 Barbie and G.I. Joe dolls. \
\
: "When Barbie speaks, little girls listen, which is why controversy erupted in 1992 when Teen Talk Barbie exclaimed, "I love shopping," "Meet me at the mall," and "Math class is tough." This last phrase struck an especially sour note, given the under-representation of women in the sciences" [Dery (Date Created: 05/1994. Date Accessed: 1/2/2007)][#Dery:2007zr]\
\
: "The Simpsons" episode Lisa vs. Malibu Stacey is a wonderful parody of the 'Teen Talk Barbie' controversy. The episode explores issues of what dolls are programmed to say and activist / feminist responses to such things[^chcc_simpsons]. There is even a subtle reference to the underground work of the Barbie Liberation Organisation when the girl doll "Malibu Stacey" is heard to say "My Spidey-sense is tingling. Anyone call for a webslinger?". \
\
Although the technologies of embedded speech are fascinating, whether using the latest embedded microprocessers for speech recognition and synthesis processors[^chcc_elvis], bellows and air, miniature phonographs, it seems that whenever toys talk the semiotic content, or the meaning of the iteration outweighs the possibilities inherent in technical act of production. \
\
[^chcc_simpsons]: First broadcast: in "The Simpsons" Season 5, September 30, 1993 May 19, 1994.\
\
[^chcc_elvis]: See the wonderfully named E.L.V.I.S. \'93the Embedded Large Vocabulary Interface System platform\'94 from Voice Signals Technologies.\
[Voice Signals Technologies. (Date Created: 19/02/2002. Date Accessed: 1/2/2007.)][#Technology:2007ys]\
}