{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Animated facial mechanisms attempt to re-embody dis-embodied voice and, in turn, over-concretise and limit imaginative play \
\
: "Phenomenologically, there is a close relationship between the voice and the face; both the voice and the face are parts of us that are turned outwards and by which the world knows us, but which we can ourselves only see or hear partially. They signify intimacy and vulnerability. We are our faces and we are our voices . " (Conner, 2000, 401) [4] \
\
It is a trend in recent talking toys, to have complex animated faces.This is in part due to a desire to a create an illusion of an *embodied* voice. Disembodied voices tend towards the *uncanny*. \
\
In the history of puppet theatre, there is a pronounced difference between forms that attempt to locate the voice *within* an object by rhythmically mapping gesture and movement to voice and articulated face parts, and those forms that rely on the play of light on static sculpted forms of faces to suggest expression and facial motion. The misbegotten primary aim of 'more' articulation is *more* realism -- greater verisimilitude in the imitation of living forms. \
\
This is echoed in the aims of makers Hasbro and Voice Signals recent technology expressed in a press release. The seek to offer a more interactive, *richer* play experience through speech activation and recognition: \
\
: "We are extremely pleased that Hasbro has selected Voice Signal's MicroREC speech recognition software for this product [Aloha Stitch]," commented Stewart Sims, Voice Signal's executive vice president of marketing. "Hasbro has a well-deserved reputation for creating fun, innovative, quality products, and we are delighted that they have chosen Voice Signal to supply the speech recognition software that increases the interactivity of their toys and brings *Aloha Stitch* to life." [17] \
\
In Hasbro's *Aloah Stich*, the Voice Signal voice chip creates a *bi-polar* toy, that varies its responses to a set number questions according to one of two moods. I quote an online review of the toy by a parent at length as it is hard to access information about the performance and interactive sequences of most of the toys under consideration in the present paper: \
\
: "So just what kind of smack does Stitch talk? Here's a rundown of cues and replies\
You say -- "What's your badness level" He says -- "Mostly Good Today" or a sheepish, "I'm having a pretty good day" when he's nice and Naughty! Blarrrtghll! when he's rotten. \
You say, "Are you hungry?" He says, "Coconut cake and coffee, please." when he's nice and "Not anymore, I ate your dinner" when he's rotten. \
You say, "Sing a Song." He sings Aloha Oe when he's happy and burps it when he's rotten (way too funny). \
You say, "I know you can talk." He says, "Okay Okay" when he's nice and "Doggies cannot talk" or "Bark! Bark!" when he's rotten. \
You say, "Got to Sleep" He says, "Very Sleepy. . Snore" when he's nice and barks, "No, make me a sandwich!" when he's rotten. \
You say, "Where are you?" He says, "I'm with my family" or a very sad, "I'm lost" when he's nice and "Stinky Planet Earth" (which comes out yarth) when he's rotten. \
You say, "Will you play?" He replies, "Surf's Up! Cowabunga!" or "I can't I have nothing to wear." when he's happy and "I'm busy get lost!" or "I'm busy you go away, okay?" when's he's rotten." [Parent (Date Created: 28/11/2004. Date Accessed: 01/02/2007)][#AParent:2004rr]\
\
Inanimate children's toys, which the child enlivens with movement and either unspoken or spoken voice are, to me, more enduring playful simulations - as the mutability, the changeability, the \uc0\u64258 uidity of roles are emphasised through imaginative projections on a static face, rather than the repetitive 'fixed movements' of most automated articulated movement. \
\
In an article on 'Mike the Talking Head' (an extraordinary head mounted facial performance capture system and CG digital puppet documented circa 1988), Valarie Hall comments: "When it all comes together, the quest for realism in character animation is but a test for the animator to find out how good he/she is at using the tools they have at their disposal." [(Hall (Date Created: nodate. Date Accessed: 01/02/2007))][#Hall:2007fk]\
\
Any aesthetic assessment about *realism* in talking toys and how it effects play needs to balance manufactures promotional excitements with an assessment of the whole interactive system.}