{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Accident, improvisation and deviation from planning are important. The exercise of and desire to assert control leads to a dialectic when designing an *open*, improvisational structure for performance. The haptic wireless controller leads to a great sense of playfulness and with further development will yield significant control over numerous properties of the on-screen objects.\
 \
A couple of lovely moments of playful, serendipitous discovery: (i) Duplicate eye movies playing back slightly out of sync made gains in general expressivity, (ii) Silhouetting characters for copyright reasons introduced a wonderful resonance of a different puppetry tradition -- shadow theatre, particularly the amazing shadow films of Lotte Reiniger.\
\
It was quite an accident that some of the frames from the sequence resembled the visual style of Reiniger's shadow puppet films. The *Minnie* character in performance animates quite subtly, pivoting at the waist. I wish to expand the control over these elements, with multiple *Wii-Remote* controllers, introducing a game-like collaborative control over the performance space and objects.\
\
I wish to refine the control system and expand the visual repertoire. A key to success in performance is, I feel, the availability of a large number of scenographic elements and character objects that can be re-configured by an improvising operator on-the-fly. Rehearsal is necessary to overcome the simple linear sequence of pre-defined story-elements. The operator should be knowledgeable about the content of the system in order to be able to improvise and play. The act of performance with such a system needs time and practice in order to achieve spontaneity through control.\
}