{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green43\blue131;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 New Books to Read or Buy and Put in Bibliography\
\
Parables for the Virtual\
Movement Affect Sensation\
Brian Massumi\
\
Simulation and Its Discontents \
(Simplicity: Design, Technology, Business, Life)\
by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/search-handle-url?_encoding=UTF8&search-type=ss&index=books-uk&field-author=S%20Turkle"}}{\fldrslt S Turkle}} (Author) \
\
\
\
http://www.waset.org/journals/waset/v45/v45-40.pdf\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa460\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 Check Out (from :\
[2] C. Darwin. The expression of emotions in man and animals: 3:rd ed. by Paul Ekman. Oxford University Press, 1872/1998. [3] Eden Davies. Beyond Dance, Laban\'92s Legacy of Movement Analysis. Brechin Books, 2001.\
[4] P. Ekman. Emotion in the Face. New York, Cambridge University Press, 1982.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 [10] R. Lazarus. Emotion and Adaptation. Oxford University Press, 1991.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs38 \cf0 Practice-as-Research: In Performance and Screen 
\fs32 [Hardcover]
\fs38 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=ntt_athr_dp_sr_1?_encoding=UTF8&sort=relevancerank&search-alias=books&field-author=Ludivine%20Fuschini"}}{\fldrslt 
\f3\fs22 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ludivine Fuschini}}
\f3\fs22  (Editor), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=ntt_athr_dp_sr_2?_encoding=UTF8&sort=relevancerank&search-alias=books&field-author=Simon%20Jones"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Simon Jones}} (Editor), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=ntt_athr_dp_sr_3?_encoding=UTF8&sort=relevancerank&search-alias=books&field-author=Baz%20Kershaw"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Baz Kershaw}} (Editor), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=ntt_athr_dp_sr_4?_encoding=UTF8&sort=relevancerank&search-alias=books&field-author=Angela%20Piccini"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Angela Piccini}} (Editor)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs20 \cf0 No customer reviews yet.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/review/create-review/ref=dp_top_cm_cr_acr_wr_link?ie=UTF8&nodeID=&asin=0230220010"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Be the first.}}\cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\
\
\
Brian Massumi\
http://www.brianmassumi.com/textes/Introduction.pdf\
\
Art and Physics}