{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red83\green83\blue83;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Who Am We?
\b0  
\f1\fs32 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs26 We are moving from modernist calculation toward postmodernist simulation, where the self is a multiple, distributed system.
\f3\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\f2\i\fs20 \cf0 By Sherry Turkle
\f3\i0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs26 \cf0 Children are comfortable with the idea that inanimate objects can both think and have a personality. But they no longer worry if the machine is alive. They know it is not. The issue of aliveness has moved into the background as though it is settled. But the notion of the machine has expanded to include its having a psychology. In talking about computers in a psychological way, children allow computational machines to retain an animistic trace, a mark of having passed through a stage in which the issue of the computer's aliveness was a focus of intense consideration. \
...\
Children also grant new capacities and privileges to the machine world on the basis of its animation if not its life. They endow artificial objects with properties, such as having intentions and ideas, previously reserved for living beings.\
Granting a psychology to computers can mean that objects in the category "machine," like objects in the categories "people" and "pets," are fitting partners for dialog and relationship. Although children increasingly regard computers as mere machines, they are also increasingly likely to attribute qualities to them that undermine the machine/person distinction. \
...\
The creatures in simulation space challenge children to find a new language for talking about them and their status, as do mobile robots that wander about, making their "own decisions" about where to go. When MIT professor Rodney Brooks asked his 10-year-old daughter whether his mobots, or mobile robots, were alive, she said, "No, they just have control." For this child, and despite her father's work, life is biological. You can have consciousness and intentionality without being alive. At the end of the 1992 Artificial Life Conference, I sat next to 11-year-old Holly as we watched a group of robots with distinctly different "personalities" compete in a special robot Olympics. I told her I was studying robots and life, and Holly became thoughtful. Then she said unexpectedly, "It's like Pinocchio. First, Pinocchio was just a puppet. He was not alive at all. Then he was an alive puppet. Then he was an alive boy. A real boy. But he was alive even before he was a real boy. So I think the robots are like that. They are alive like Pinocchio [the puppet], but not like real boys."\
\
...\
\
Play has always been an important aspect of our individual efforts to build identity. The psychoanalyst Erik Erikson called play a "toy situation" that allows us to "reveal and commit" ourselves "in its unreality." \
\

\fs24 \
Source: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/4.01/turkle.html?pg=2&topic="}}{\fldrslt http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/4.01/turkle.html?pg=2&topic=}} \
Print Source: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/4.01/turkle_pr.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/4.01/turkle_pr.html}} \
Viewed: 29/01/2010\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\ql\qnatural

\fs20 \cf2 Issue 4.01 | Jan 1996\
\
\
\
\
http://web.mit.edu/sturkle/www/pdfsforstwebpage/ST_Relational%20Artifacts.pdf}