{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Academic Literature and Indicative Bibliography
\f1\b0  
\f0\b [not consistently formatted nor ordered]
\f1\b0 \
\
The select bibliography ballooned the word-count - so I have placed the longer copy online \
\
Link: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ellington.tvu.ac.uk/research/proposal/bib.html"}}{\fldrslt http://ellington.tvu.ac.uk/research/proposal/bib.html}} \
\
C.\'a0Baudelaire. The philosophy of toys. In I.\'a0Parry, editor, Essays on Dolls. Syrens, London, 1994.\
\
J.\'a0Bell, editor. Puppets, Masks, and Performing Objects. MIT Press, Boston, 2001.\
\
R.\'a0A. Brooks. Robot: The Future of Flesh and Machine. Penguin, London, 2002.\
\
H.\'a0B. Segal. Pinocchio\'92s Progeny : Puppets, Marionettes, Automatons and Robots in Modernist and Avant-Garde Drama. Johns Hopkins University Press, \
Baltimore, 1995.\
\
S.\'a0Kaplin. A puppet tree - a model for the field of puppet theatre. In J.\'a0Bell, editor, Puppets, Masks, and Performing Objects, pages 18\'9625. MIT Press, Boston, 2001.\
\
M. Fuller. (2003) Behind the Blip: Essays on the Culture of Software. Tandem.\
\
M. Fuller (ed.) (2008) Software Studies: A Lexicon (Leonardo Book) MIT Press.\
\
Cawood, Stephen and Mark Fiala. (2008) Augmented Reality: A Practical Guide: The Complete Guide to Understanding and Using Augmented Reality Technology. Pragmatic.\
\
S.\'a0Tillis. Toward an Aesthetics of the Puppet: Puppetry as a theatrical art. Greenwood, New York, 1992. Normal Loan 791.53 TIL.\
\
S.\'a0Tillis. The art of puppetry in the age of media production. In J.\'a0Bell, editor, Puppets, Masks, and Performing Objects, pages 172\'96183. MIT Press, Boston, 2001.\
\
Weizenbaum, Joseph. (1993) Computer Power and Human Reason (Penguin Science). Penguin.\
\
Poepel, Cornelius. (2005) On Interface Expressivity: A Player-Based Study. Available: http://hct.ece.ubc.ca/nime/2005/proc/nime2005_228.pdf. Viewed: 28/4/2008.\
\
Pelachaud, Catherine. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://webperso.iut.univ-paris8.fr/~pelachaud/"}}{\fldrslt http://webperso.iut.univ-paris8.fr/~pelachaud/}} e.g.\
J.-C. Martin, R. Niewiadomski, L. Devillers, S. Buisine, C. Pelachaud,  
\i Multimodal complex emotions: Gesture expressivity and blended facial expressions
\i0 , International Journal of Humanoid Robotics, Special Edition "Achieving Human-Like Qualities in Interactive Virtual and Physical Humanoids", 2006\
\
E. Bevacqua and C. Pelachaud, 
\i Speaking With Emotions
\i0 : Available: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://linc.iut.univ-paris8.fr/greta/papers/aisb04-bevacqua.pdf"}}{\fldrslt http://linc.iut.univ-paris8.fr/greta/papers/aisb04-bevacqua.pdf}}. Viewed: 28/4/2008\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa460\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Dobson, Kelly,  Brian Whitman and Daniel P.W. Ellis. (2005)
\i  Learning Auditory Models of Machine Voices. 
\i0 Available: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.media.mit.edu/~monster/dobson_whitman_ellis_machinevoices.pdf"}}{\fldrslt http://web.media.mit.edu/~monster/dobson_whitman_ellis_machinevoices.pdf}}. Viewed: 24/4/2008.\
Juul, Jesper. (2005) 
\i Half-Real: Video Games between Real Rules and Fictional Worlds
\i0 . MIT Press.}