{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Myron Kruger\
Shadows are an intriguing computational phenomena and, in an art context, have been the focus of several recent computer graphics papers, [TODO SIGGRAPH, SIGGRAPH Asia]. Performative and puppetry contexts have been considered and technically simulated. But most studies stop short of becoming a tool for expression and performance.\
\
The present thesis is aiming to evaluate the full extent of contexts where digital puppetry is presented. This study includes contexts where the performative and puppeteering contexts of control are secondary to the visual and semiotic ones. \
\
The current chapter focuses on the theme of the silhouette and shadow puppet.\
\
There is a lot in:\
\
[][#Ren:2005:LSF]\
\
: "Shadow play is a Chinese art that has not yet transformed into a digital form." [p.1601][#Li:2007p1864]\
\
[][#Tan-Kian-Lam:2008uq]\
\
The work of [Lam et. al][#Tan-Kian-Lam:2008uq], drew together techniques for real-time simulation of shadow puppets, animation and visual look drawn from Chinese shadow puppet traditions. Using standard OpenGL techniques, the paper explores texturing, animation, depth of field blurring, intensity of light source and procedural algorithms for (automatic) animation. \
\
From the perspective of performance and puppetry, although real-time image generation techniques were examined, no real-time performance system was described. The paper mentions the potential for real-time physics simulation in creating expressive animation, but doesn't develop or propose any techniques for performer-object control. \
\
The paper mentioned an important and emerging theme of my work, that of preservation of traditional crafts an the importance of digital media preserving and promoting cultural heritage.\
The real-time features of OpenGL: texturing properties, blending, animation and timers,  lighting, shaders for blurring screen elements\
\
real-time raytracing\
gpu programmable shaders\
\
hard-ware acceleration of games physics\
\
[TODO: SEQUENCE OF ANNOTATES IMAGES OF THE IK APPROACH TO ONE OF MY MULTIJOINTED FIGURES]\
\
[TODO: SUMMARISE THIS QUOTATION FROM LAM]\
 we have provided several solutions are provided in visual simulation and animation of virtual shadow play\'92s puppet. Firstly, texture mapping and blending techniques are used instead of rendering technique in order to allow fast and interactive display in real time environment. Besides, several techniques that use various themes (lighting) and special effects such as blurring to bring the right atmosphere to the virtual shadow play are proposed. Hierarchical modeling method is adopted in order to model a realistic animation for the puppet to include real time elements that allow playing of shadow play naturally in virtual environment. Previous works are not interactive and require manual pre-ordering of the play using key-framed approach.}