{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Methodology, Methods, Tools and Approaches
\f1\b0 \
\
My methodological philosophies will involve: \
\
- Interpretative work on relevant performance history, artefacts and technologies.\
- Broad ethnographic strategies in defining case studies of relevant work, including:\
\
	Performance Documentation - A/V and photographic;\
	Observation and Thick Description;\
	Deep Conversation / Interviews - with artists, developers, workshop participants and audiences;\
	Computer assisted analysis, dimensionalising and visualisation of collected research material;\
	Coding and Commenting as Creative Research;\
\
- Establishing a 'software studies' approach when elaborating on the cultural contexts of software design and creative practice. Software studies is an emerging academic field with key proponents including Matthew Fuller (Goldsmiths) and Lev Manovich (UCSD). Software Studies:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa300\ql\qnatural
\cf0 "...proposes that software can be seen as an object of study and an area of practice for art and design theory and the humanities, for cultural studies and science and technology studies and for an emerging reflexive strand of computer science. Secondly, it takes the form of a series of short \'91studies\'92: creative and critical texts on particular algorithms, logical structures and digital objects. Such objects can be drawn from any layer of computational culture \'96 from the front, to the back end. Software is often a blind spot in the theorisation and study of computational and networked digital media. It is the very grounds and \'91stuff\'92 of media design. In a sense, all intellectual work is now \'91software study\'92, in that software provides its media and its context, but there are very few places where the specific nature, the materiality, of software is studied except as a matter of engineering. (Fuller, 2006. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://pzwart.wdka.hro.nl/mdr/Seminars2/softstudworkshop"}}{\fldrslt http://pzwart.wdka.hro.nl/mdr/Seminars2/softstudworkshop}})\
}