{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \
Concepts from Susan Kozel:\
modes of improvisation\
kinaesthetically diverse - physically articulate (or expressive)\
\
techne / technique\
An anecdote: John Roberts, a UK based marionettist / puppeter, uses a twenty string chinese marionette\
\
the expression engine [CONTACT MEDIA MOLECULE] [PROPOSE MERL PROJECT USING LITTLE BIG PLANET]\
\
What is a 'poetics of responsivity'?\
responsivity rather than interactivity...  -- in my case, the physical simulation puts \
in place a chain of action and response.. (CONTACT IMPRO) \
[Concept] hyper-reflectivity\
To use some terminology from the extremely useful and perceptive work "Closer" by Susan Kozel [(2007)][#Kozel:2007qf]\
\
When a puppeteer performs, there is an acute sense of disembodied 'hyper-reflectivity'.\
The focus and control of operation has during the moments of operation\
body-segmentation\
In early television puppetry (as devised by Jim Henson and others), the puppeteer often worked with puppets held aloft, while they observed the camera view of their arms, on a low level / eye level monitor.\
\
WHAT HAPPENS TO THE PUPPETEER / PERFORMER\
Diagram: of 'responsivity', drawn from Merleau-Ponty (1968 [check]), Deleuze (1992 [check]) and Schwartz (1992 [check])\
\
:"Merleau-Ponty seems to hold sacred the form of the human body, while Deleuze disintegrates it into forces, planes, and directions." [p.185][#Kozel:2007qf]\
\
'Deleuzian non-bodies'\
\
In describing a digital / motion capturing glitch:\
\
:"Another evocative moment with a malfunctioning system occurred when I stepped over the sphere (which rested on the floor) and the figure I was animating stretched and then inverted, the shift in my position having scrambled the data. Responsivity can occur while the system is malfunctioning... . " [p.188][#Kozel:2007qf]\
\
Kozel refers to Morse frequently: Here's Morse:\
\
: "awareness of mediation and its sensory material of expression" [online][#Morse:2003ve]\
\
: "Whatever it may be in the larger socioeconomic and cultural sphere, artists have chosen to inflect prosaic interactivity to their own expressive ends. Metainteractive aesthetic strategies\'97like poetry, with its rhythms, assonances, and figures\'97does not merely transport us to another scene or world but is itself an experience charged by semantic and formal values of expression. Interactivity is not just an instrument or a perhaps irritating interval between clicking and getting somewhere else but an event that brings corporeal and cognitive awareness to this increasingly ubiquitous feature of the contemporary world." [online][#Morse:2003ve]\
it is like playing catch. flick, artefact response and response - a game with \
gravity.\
\
: "The limbs, which are only pendulums, then follow mechanically of their own accord, without further help. He added that this movement is very simple. When the centre of gravity is moved in a straight line, the limbs describe curves. Often shaken in a purely haphazard way, the puppet falls into a kind of rhythmic movement which resembles dance." [PAGE NUMBER][#Von-Kleist:1994dq]\
\
: "The line the centre of gravity has to follow is indeed very simple, and in most cases, he believed, straight. When it is curved, the law of its curvature seems to be at the least of the first and at the most of the second order. Even in the latter case the line is only elliptical, a form of movement natural to the human body because of the joints, so this hardly demands any great skill from the operator. But, seen from another point of view, this line could be something very mysterious. It is nothing other than the path taken by the soul of the dancer. He doubted if this could be found unless the operator can transpose himself into the centre of gravity of the marionette. In other words, the operator dances." [PAGE NUMBER][#Von-Kleist:1994dq]\
\
: "I said the operator's part in the business had been represented to me as something which can be done entirely without feeling - rather like turning the handle of a barrel-organ.\
'Not at all', he said. 'In fact, there's a subtle relationship between the movements of his fingers and the movements of the puppets attached to them, something like the relationship between numbers and their logarithms or between asymptote and hyperbola.'" [PAGE NUMBER][#Von-Kleist:1994dq]}