{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \
As promised I am writing to support you with the direction of content for the Mulsemedia book. We will probably group your chapter with another that looks at use of mulsemedia for entertainment. \
\
The fact that your work is not VR, and is not the perceived normal type of entertainment solution is good. \
\
Your provision of interactive theatre is good as it implies that these technologies can be applied more widely accepted in the entertainment domain. \
\
Interaction is a key area of interest for me, as it allows anyone to get involved  - especially interesting when combined with multi-touch technology, such as the I-pad. \
\
The concepts of how mulsemedia is used, \
how perception is managed, \
techniques and need for interaction, \
\
background on the technologies involved and / or details of the prototype involved would be interesting. \
\
I would personally be interested in informal responses from uses (but that is because of my research background), and potential areas where you think mulsemedia supports the arts.\
\
Moreover, you may focus of how mulsemedia increases \
immersion and / or \
dissemination and / or accessbiliy and supports older entertainment forms (such as shadows puppets) onto new devices, etc.\
\
\
\
I hope this gives you some interesting headings !? If not please get in touch. I will leave you to think about this, but please keep me in the loop of how it is going. We have informed the IGI formatting team that there are two chapters coming (so you are not the only one), however the sooner we get a good draft the better. Your word limit is 10,000, so you are welcome to bring in a supporting author if this will help you complete something in time. \
\
Something by end of next week is a must!\
\
Stephen Gulliver}