{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 BellMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li400\fi-400\sl360\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Andr\'e9, E., Rist, T. & Baldes, S., 2002. From Simulated Dialogues to Interactive Performances. Proceedings of the 9th ECCAI-ACAI/EASSS 2001, AEMAS 2001, HoloMAS 2001 on Multi-Agent-Systems and Applications II-Selected Revised Papers.\
Beguin, P. & Rabardel, P., 2000. Designing for instrument-mediated activity. Scandinavian Journal of Information Systems.\
Bendle, M., 2002. Teleportation, cyborgs and the posthuman ideology. Social Semiotics, 12(1), pp.45-62.\
Cameron, D. & Carroll, J., 2009. Encoding liveness: Performance and real-time rendering in machinima. Breaking New Ground: Innovation in Games, Play, Practice and Theory: Proceedings of DiGRA 2009.\
de Preester, H. & Knockaert, V., 2005. Body image and body schema: interdisciplinary perspectives on the body\uc0\u8206 . p.343.\
Hare, J., Karam, M. & Lewis, P., 2005. iGesture: A Platform for Investigating Multimodal, Multimedia Gesture-based Interactions.\
Ishii, H. et al., 1998. ambientROOM: integrating ambient media with architectural space. CHI 98 conference \'85.\
Karam, M., A framework for research and design of gesture-based human-computer interactions. PhD thesis.\
Karam, M., 2005. A taxonomy of gestures in human computer interactions.\
Karam, M. et al., 2006. Ambient Gestures. Technical Report ECSTR-IAM06-001, Intelligence, Agents, Multimedia Group. University of Southampton. (Unpublished).\
Klemmer, SR, 2004. Tangible user interface input: tools and techniques. PhD Thesis.\
Klemmer, SR & Landay, J., 2009. Toolkit support for integrating physical and digital interactions. Human-Computer Interaction, 24(3), pp.315-366.\
Klemmer, Scott, Hartmann, B. & Takayama, L., 2006. How bodies matter: five themes for interaction design. DIS '06: Proceedings of the 6th conference on Designing Interactive systems.\
Levin, G., 2000. Painterly interfaces for audiovisual performance\uc0\u8206 . PhD Thesis MIT, p.149.\
Norman, S. et al., 2009. AMUC: Associated Motion capture User Categories. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, 367(1898), p.2771.\
Orio, N., Schnell, N. & Wanderley, M., 2001. Input devices for musical expression: borrowing tools from HCI. Proceedings of the 2001 conference on New interfaces for musical expression, p.4.\
Rabardel, P. & Waern, Y., 2003. From artefact to instrument. Interacting with computers.\
van den Hoogen, W., IJsselsteijn, W. & de Kort, Y., 2009. Effects of Sensory Immersion on Behavioural Indicators of Player Experience: Movement Synchrony and Controller Pressure. Breaking New Ground: Innovation in Games, Play, Practice and Theory: Proceedings of DiGRA 2009.\
Verillon, P. & Rabardel, P., 1995. Cognition and artifacts: a contribution to the study of though in relation to instrumented activity. European journal of psychology of education.\
V\'e9rillon, P., 2000. Revisiting Piaget and Vigotsky: In search of a learning model for technology education. the Journal of Technology studies, 26(1), pp.3-10.}