{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Inter Library Loans
\f1\b0 \
\
---------------------------------------------\
Flow, gesture, and spaces in free jazz : towards a theory of collaboration\
	G Mazzola; Paul B Cherlin; Tetrade.\
Find more information about:    \
ISBN:	9783540921943 354092194X\
OCLC Number:	301547272\
Description:	xiii, 141 p. : ill., music ; 25 cm. + 1 sound disc (digital ; 4 3/4 in.)\
Contents:	pt.1. Getting off ground. What is free jazz? (The social, and political, and musical origins of the movement; A provisional positive characterization) --\
Jazz in transition (Archie Shepp in Donaueschingen; John Coltrane's A love supreme; Cecil Taylor and Buell Neidlinger; Bill Evans : gestural dialogs). pt. 2. The landscape of free jazz. Out of this world (Sun Ra : an extraterrestrial romantic; Coltrane's Om; Mythologies of the Art Ensemble of Chicago) --\
The art of collaboration (A short overview of the classical ontological landscape of music; The oniontological [sic] extension to the fourth dimension; What is the art of collaboration?). pt. 3. Collaborative spaces in free jazz. Which collaboratories? (Ornette Coleman's melodic spaces in Free jazz; John Coltrane's harmonic spaces in Ascension) --\
The innards of time (Cecil Taylor : unit structures; Trance spaces : Archie Shepp's The magic of ju-ju; Dervish dances : Albert Ayler's Love cry). pt. 4. Gestural creativity. From philosophy to thought experiments. (Philosophy, performance, music theory; The French approach to gestures; Ch\'e2telet's gestural thought experiments) --\
Geometry of gestures (Gestures are diagrams of curves; Definition of gestures and hypergestures; Hypergestures, cognitive science, and Cavaill\'e8s) --\
The Escher theorem and gestural creativity (The Escher theorem; Group creativity and categories of hypergestures; Rebecca Lazier's Vanish : Lawvere, Escher, Schoenberg; Musical poetology). pt. 5. What group flow generates. What is flow? (Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi's flow concept; Keith Sawyer's group flow; Miles Davis' Bitches brew; Gestures in Geisser's and Mazzola's Chronotomy; What does group flow produce?) --\
The symbolic axis of distributed identity (Groups from gestures; The Fourier ballet ; Passion; Archie Shepp's Coral rock). pt. 6. Epilogue. From pre- to postproduction : the infinite listening --\
Global strategies for free jazz --\
The future of free jazz. Compact disc: Liquid bridges / by Tetrade. Colors of dawn (16:20) --\
Liquid bridges (18:52) --\
Trance figuration (28:34) / all compositions by Heinz Geisser and Guerino Mazzola, SUISA.\
\
\

\f0\b Where: 
\f1\b0 The British Library, British National Bibliography \
BNB\
Wetherby, West Yorkshire, LS23 7BQ United Kingdom\
\
Part IV Gestural Creativity\
From Philosophy to Thought Experiments\
	Philosophy, Performance, Music Theory\
	The French Approach to Gestures\
	Ch\'e2telet's Gestural Thought Experiments\
Geometry of Gestures\
	Gestures are Diagrams of Curves\
	Definitions of Gestures and Hypergestures\
	HyperGestures, Cognitive Science and Cavaill\'e8s\
The Escher Theorem and Gestural Creativity\
	The Escher Theorem\
	Group Creativity and Categories of Hypergestures\
	Rebecca...\
	Musical Poetology\
	\
What Group Flow Generates\
	What is flow?\
		Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi's Flow Concept\
		...\
	The Symbolic Axis of Distributed Identity\
------------------------------------------------------\
\

\f0\b Where: Royal Holloway
\f1\b0 \
	Martin, John \
Title	 The Mysore manual : a path of actor\'92s creativity /\
Imprint	 London : Pan Project, Goldsmiths\'92 College , 1990\
Description	 117 p. , ill\
Subject - L.C.	 Acting.\
Add.Entry	 University of London Goldsmiths\'92 College\
Location	Founders : Main (Book) 792.028 MAR\
System Number	 000219611}