{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Interesting References\
\
\
\
Casey Reas. Behavioral Kinetic Sculpture (Masters Thesis, MIT 2001)\
\
Diagram after Frank Popper\
\
<http://acg.media.mit.edu/people/creas/thesis/>\
\
\
ARTWORK\
Tony Oursler. Glimmer, 1999\
<http://tonyoursler.com/>\
<http://tonyoursler.com/tonyourslerv2/main.html>\
\
\
Eyes (1996)\
\
Talking Photo (1996)\
\
The Influence Machine (2002)\
\
\
---\
\
Eugenio Barba\
\
Eugenio Barba. (1995) The Paper Canoe, Routledge, London.\
\
\
Eugenio Barba (in collaboration with Nicola Savarese) The Secret Art of the Performer,  (1991)\
\
\
Pre-expressive principles:\
\
"In an organised performance the performers physical and vocal presence is modelled according to principles which are different from those of daily life" (Barba, 1995, p9)\
\
There is an intercultural 'common pre-expressive state'.\
\
Principles of the  Pre-Expressive Body / Performer\
pre-expressive technique\
\
(1) Balance in Action;\
(2) The Dance of Oppositions;\
(3) The Virtue of Omission - simplification of daily techniques (the extra-daily)\
\
\
Eugenio Barba\
-------------\
The performer's different techniques can be conscious and codified or else unconscious but implicit in the use and repetition of a scenic practice. Transcultural analysis shows that it is possible to distinguish recurring principles in these techniques. The recurring principles, when applied to certain physiological factors - weight, balance, the position of the spinal column, the direction of the eyes in space - produce physical, pre-expressive tensions. These new tensions generate a different energy quality, they render the body theatrically "decided", "alive", "believable" and manifest the performer's "presence", or scenic bios, attracting the spectator's attention before any form of message is transmitted. This, of course, is a matter of a logical, and not chronological before.\
The pre-expressive layer constitutes the elementary level of organisation in theatre. The various levels of organisation are for the spectator and in the performance, inseparable and indistinguishable. They can only be separated by means of abstraction, in a situation of analytical research or during the technical work of composition done by the performer. The capacity to focus on the pre-expressive level makes possible the expansion of knowledge with immediate consequences both in the practical, professional, as well as in the historical and critical fields of work.\
Knowledge of the pre-expressive principles which govern the scenic bios can make it possible for one to learn to learn.\
\
Source:\
<http://www.odinteatret.dk/ista/anthropology.htm>\
\
---\
\
http://www.jstor.org/pss/1146380\
\
Mask Face and Machine Face\
Mikhail Yampolsky and Larry Joseph\
TDR (1988-), Vol. 38, No. 3 (Autumn, 1994), pp. 60-74   (article consists of 15 pages)\
Published by: The MIT Press\
\
\
---\
\
Jules Verne - notes on the manuscript of Around the World in 80 Days - the Face isn't the only expressive organ\
<http://home.netvigator.com/~wbutcher/books/awed%20crit%20mat.htm>\
\
\
The Digital Marionette\
\
---\
\
Presence and Pre-Expressivity,Part II\
by Ralph Yarrow (Editor)\
Publisher: Taylor & Francis, Inc.\
Pub. Date: March 1998\
ISBN-13: 9789057021756\
64pp\
Series: Contemporary Theatre Review Series\
\
\
\
\
\
---\
\
\
"Mechanical information is the most basic of all types of information, \
relating to such qualities as mass, force, inertia, consistency and friction. \
These are qualities shared by all objects living and inanimate, including \
ourselves, and in the detection and interpretation of which we are very \
efficient, but for the communication or expression of which we have no \
adequate method except, perhaps, poetry. We can, for instance, record or \
transmit by radio the sound that a bird makes and we can photograph or \
televise a bird's appearance but we cannot record or transmit what it feels \
like to hold a bird in one's hands, except by making verbal comparisons."\
\
\
The Relevance of Manipulation to the Process of Perception  \
Edward Ihnatowicz \
Published in The Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, May 1977, \
pp 133-135 \
\
---\
\
\
\
Transdisciplinary Digital Art: Sound, Vision and the New Screen. 2008. R. Adams, S. Gibson, and S. M\'fcller Arisona (eds.). Communications in Computer and Information Science (CCIS), Volume 7, Springer Berlin Heidelberg.\
\
\
<http://www.springer.com/computer/information+systems/book/978-3-540-79485-1>\
\
--\
\
\
live real-time animation and performance capture processes \
\
rendered computer generated animation process, referring to animation per- \
formance systems, like Pixar Studio\'92s Marionette software \
\
automata and kinetic art practice, involving servo/microprocessor controlled \
automata and animatronics\
\
live multimedia performance \
\
user-controlled characters in animations or machinima, often made with \
real-time game engines or Linden Lab\'92s Second Life. \
\
---\
\
Reconfiguring Human-Robot Relations\
Suchman, L.\
Robot and Human Interactive Communication, 2006. ROMAN 2006. The 15th IEEE International Symposium on\
Volume , Issue , 6-8 Sept. 2006 Page(s):652 - 654\
Digital Object Identifier   10.1109/ROMAN.2006.314474\
\
Summary:\
This paper explores cultural imaginaries in projects dedicated to the design of human-like machines. Working with discussions of mimesis as developed by anthropologists Michael Taussig, M (1993) and Gell, A (1998), the author looks at some exemplary realizations of 'socially intelligent' robots, proposing an approach aimed at demystifying and reenchanting such encounters. This alternative is developed through a close analysis of a project at the intersection of computing and new media art, performance artist Stelare's prosthetic head. Drawing on recent discussions within cultural anthropology, science and technology studies, and feminist theory, the author offers some suggestions for how we might differently conceptualize relations between humans and computational machines\
\
\
---\
\
---\
\
The Machine. \
by Hulten, K.G. Pontus.\
Publisher Information:\
No Publisher Information Available \
Hulten, K.G. Pontus. The Machine as seen at the end of the Mechanical Age. Museum of Modern Art, NY 1968, 1st edition. Sq. 4to, orig. pictorial aluminum binding, 218, (2) pp, profusely illustrated. Remarkable embossed and stamped metal binding with a color image of the Museum (designed by Anders Osterlin.) A striking MOMA exhibit which provided a wide variety of artistic commentary of the technical age. Slight bend on lower front cover, o/w fine.\
\
\
Book Id: 7542\
\
Price: $145.00\
\
\
---\
\
\
}